---
layout: post
title: "A History"
description: "First Post about me starting out as a sysadmin at a server hosting company"
category: History
tags: [sysadmin, support, hosting, history, newbie]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

I got my first job touching live servers back in 2006. At the time, I was working
as a dishwasher and got an internship at a small local hosting company that
recently made the jump from web hosting to full server hosting. My non-existent
training consisted of basically shadowing the most senior SysAdmin at the time.

Up until that point, my experience with server OSes and enterprise network
hardware was non-existent. I managed to learn quickly by asking questions and
doing legwork on major projects when I wasn't moving offices and setting up
physical storage.  Since they hosted their own servers in a NOC, I got some
server hardware experience as well.

When the internship was about to end, my paychecks at the restaurant started
bouncing. I thankfully got hired on part-time at $9/hr. After I finished school,
I was moved to full-time. Eventually the company was sold to a larger hosting
company and dismantled around the end of 2011. I was able to get another job at a
server hosting company in Chicago before they shut down though.

At the second hosting company, they actually had a virtualization implementation
that allowed clients to obtain individual virutal machines on shared hardware and
entire Hypervisor servers they could spin up their own VMs with. The system wasn't
great, and they ended up replacing it for a private cloud solution that was based
on VMware. At the time, I was senior on the SysAdmin team and I was learning a lot
about infrastructure management. I eventually got moved to the recently formed
DevOps team, and things were rather stressful due to my own inexperience and
having to put out fires in general. I ended up leaving that company in 2014 to
take a position as a sole SysAdmin for the tech department of an organization.

At my new company, they had existing production infrastructure with a server
hosting provider, but were looking for alternatives. I was given the unique
opportunity to test and work on an IaaS platform of my choice, and eventually
migrate all production and development infrastructure to it.  This is where I am
now.

Looking back, I can definitely say that the paradigms of '* as a service' and
DevOps have sped up the ability for someone to do infrastructure work at less cost.
In my next post, I will try my best to explain the whole bullshit behind the DevOps
paradigm.  
